Latest Progress
AccessoryShop Talk -- Done
Main Scenario 01 -- Stopped at line 420. Check back earlier formatting and editting.

Important things to note
Track honorific usage among characters. Its usage might be important for characterization and relationships.


Character Quirks and Notes

Nowa
AI TL translate his name as "Noah".
From a village in the mountains. Has an Aunt Martha and a little sister Leene.
Leene called him a "meddler".

Lian
AI TL translates her name as Ryang
Very very hyper and genki girl. Also loves to show off.
Uses the -neechan honorific for Mio. I added "Big Sis" during the intro lines to indicate this, but dropped it soon after to differentiate normal conversation outside of introduction.

Mio
From the East Reach.
Has a speech quirk. She has alternate readings for Kanji peppered in her script. Instead of reading "術" (way/path) as "jutsu", she reads it as "sube". Instead of reading "風" (wind) as "kaze", she reads it as "fuu".
The only way to catch this is to listen to her voice lines, because not all of her alternate readings have a <ruby> tag and not all of her lines have an alternate Kanji reading.

Garr
Sentences are very curt, short, and blunt. To the point of being rude.
This causes some friction with Seign initially.
I tried to cut his EN sentencers short as well, while still keeping it sounding natural.
Appears to be mimicing the honorifics that Seign uses to address him back at Seign when they speak to each other. When Seign used -dono, Garr also used -dono. When Seign switched to -san, Gar also switched to -san. This may be a long-running theme of their relationship.

Seign Kesling
AI TL translates his name as Say
Uses -san and -dono honorifics to indicate respectful distance. He does not address Hildi, someone he's close to, with any honorific.
Generally uses polite language.

Hildi
Uses the same polite language as Seign. Reflect this in phrasing when possible.

Perrielle Grum
AI TL translates her name as Perrière
From Norristar.
Very brash and demanding for a young Noble woman.
Has a butler named Janquis.

Janquis
Perrielle's butler.
Uses very polite speech. Uses "-ojousama" for Perrielle.

Aldric Dux (Duke??)
His name, オルドリック公爵, is weird because Duke (公爵) appears to be both his title and his name.
Characters seem to refer to him using Duke as a title, without any honorifics.
I don't know if Dux is another needless localization or if Duke is actually both his name and his title.


Terms and Plot Devices

獣人 = Beastman = Beastyn = Beastkin
EN TL uses Beastyn, a made up term.
I translated it to Beastkin. It makes the "Lord Beastkin" name Seign uses for Garr at the beginning a little less awkward than "Lord Beastman". It also futureproofs agains any potential "Lady Beastman".

魔導レンズ = Magic lens = Rune lens
EN TL uses Rune instead of Magic. Callback to Suikoden Runes.

原初の魔導レンズ = Primordial Magic lens = Primal lens
EN TL shortens the name to just Primal lens.

制御リング = Control Ring = Regule
Called Regule in the EN script.
I dropped the regule name after its first mention line 118, SInt64 m_Id = 3707031579, in favour of maintaining "control ring" for this plot device. Can be easily replaced later.
